# US Homicides (1976-2024)
In this project, I utilized a dataset that I retrieved from the Murder Accountability Project (MAP; https://www.murderdata.org/), a non-profit dedicated to cataloging and tracking unsolved homicides in the United States of America. Specifically, the MAP has provided open access to a comprehensive dataset of these cases through a Freedom of Information Act request to the FBI. This dataset is comprised of case-level data for nearly 900,000 homicides spanning from 1976 to 2024. This dataset is continually updated to (a) add new cases and (b) update the case status (i.e., unsolved vs. solved) of existing cases.

My project centered around the exploration and visualization of this data and the production of a model that could accurately predict the case status of observations as of October 2024. In particular, I was interested in utilizing features that would be available to investigators at the outset of the investigation (e.g., murder weapon, victim sex) in order to predict future case status. I reasoned that the creation of a machine learning algorithm that could accurately predict whether a case would be solved in the future would be helpful for law enforcement officials when making resource allocation or case prioritization decisions. For instance, law enforcement officials might choose to allocate a greater amount of resources to homicide cases that were predicted to remain unsolved. This would provide an evidence-based foundation for these kinds of decisions. 

In addition, the American policing system consists of various agencies with overlapping jurisdictions. These agencies also differ in the amounts of resources that they can access (e.g., manpower, technology). Occasionally, smaller law enforcement agencies (e.g., sheriffs, tribal policing agencies) must request aid from larger law enforcement agencies (e.g., state law enforcement, federal bodies such as the FBI) in order to properly investigate crimes. In this case, a machine learning algorithm would provide another evidence-based foundation for such requests and enable smaller law enforcement agencies to quantitatively justify their requests for aid. Given the scarcity of resources (even at higher levels), this would also help larger law enforcement agencies make decisions as to how to allocate resources to smaller law enforcement agencies.

It should be noted that this project was designed to demonstrate the potential applicability of this approach rather than provide specific feedback on a given homicide case. While I do believe that this project is conceptually useful, it should be noted that there are some limitations. For instance, I did not have access to key information such as the dates when homicide cases were solved. With this information, I would have been able to create a date measure that indicates how long cases remained unsolved. In sum, this project represents a sort of "proof of concept" rather than a final product. 
